# Collaborate

import ImageClickable from '@site/src/components/ImageClickable';
import LinkFacebookPage from '@site/src/components/LinkFacebookPage';

Hi! Thank you for clicking on this section.

For inquiries, you can reach out to us via email at smartvan@johnosproject.org.
Or join the conversation and catch the latest updates on <LinkFacebookPage />.

If you're passionate about contributing, explore our projects
on [GitHub](https://github.com/Smart-Van-2-0) and participate in discussions or
report issues on
our [issue tracker](https://github.com/Smart-Van-2-0/collaborate/issues/new). We
welcome new contributors and look forward to growing together!

### Social and Sharing

The easiest and quickest way to contribute to the project is by **following
our <LinkFacebookPage /> page and sharing its content** on your social networks.

### It's an Open project

Similar to numerous other open-source initiatives, **the insights generated by
this project are shared under open licenses** to enhance accessibility and
utilization. The specific open-source license for each artifact (firmwares,
mobile app, specifications, wiring schematics, tutorials, general documentation,
etc.) depends on the type of output.

Embracing the principles of **Open Software and Open Hardware**, we are committed
to adhering to and promoting compatible licenses, fostering collaboration and
innovation within the community.

### Hardware support

Just as every camper is unique, so too can each Smart Box differ. Moreover, the
market offers numerous alternatives to the devices chosen for Smart Van Box
prototypes.<br/>
These two factors make it impossible to support every brand/model of the devices
comprising the Smart Van Box. To address this challenge, we seek assistance from
the community.

For instance, if you already have a Solar Charger, but it doesn't match the
specifications in the Smart Van Box model you're building, don't worry. **Send
us the brand, model, and communication specifications of the device** (such as
the type of physical port and communication protocol used). Together, we'll
develop the firmware to make your solar charger compatible with the Smart Van
Box. The same applies to all other devices within the Smart Van Box.

To submit your request, use
the [SmartVan 2.0/Collaborate/New Issue](https://github.com/Smart-Van-2-0/collaborate/issues/new)
page and tag it with `Hardware Generic/Feature`. More information on how to
report a problem or propose an idea is available in
the [next section](#report-a-problem-or-propose-an-idea).

### Report a problem or Propose an idea

Actually the SmartVan project is very big and a lot of help is needed.<br />
This is not a project related only to information technology or electronics.
First of all, it is a project to simplify the life of those who love camping
with their own vehicle. And therefore, it requires many soft skills.

For this reason **everyone is free to recommend new features or solve problems**
and finally re-share with the community.

The starting point for reporting a change or suggestion is the
page [SmartVan 2.0/Collaborate/New Issue](https://github.com/Smart-Van-2-0/collaborate/issues/new).
On this page it is possible to open a new issue visible to the whole community.
Before opening a duplicated issue, please use the `filter` field at the [SmartVan 2.0/Collaborate/Issues](https://github.com/Smart-Van-2-0/collaborate/issues).
page.

<ImageClickable
  src="/img/collaborate/collaborate_new_issue.png"
  alt="Collaborate labels for categories"
  width="100%" />

In order to facilitate the work of reviewing the issues, a labels category has
been defined to catalog the type of suggestion. The types available are
as follows:
* `MobileApp / Feature`
* MobileApp / Bug
* Hardware Generic / Feature
* Hardware PanelPrototype / Bug
* Hardware BoxPrototype / Bug
* Hardware New Model

<ImageClickable
  src="/img/collaborate/collaborate_labels_category.png"
  alt="Collaborate labels for categories"
  width="350px"/>

As you can guess from the categories, you can contribute with simple things
(bug reports or ideas) up to even proposing your own prototypes and features.<br />
So don't wait, start growing the SmartVan project!

### Join the Smart Van Team!

Given the vast array of components that make up the Smart Van project, we are
actively seeking maintainers for various project repositories. We are
specifically looking for individuals with technical expertise in software
development to contribute to and maintain Git repositories housing source code.
Depending on the repository type and programming languages involved, different
skills are required.

* **Mobile App Android**: Contribute to the development of the Android mobile
  application.
* **Mobile App iOS**: We're actively seeking someone with iOS development
  experience to take charge of this application. Until then, it will remain in
  the 'proposal' stage.
* **Firmware Raspberry Pi**: Maintain and enhance Python-based firmware for
  accessing the Raspberry Pi's status and executing remote commands.
* **Firmware Modules**: Manage firmware dedicated to communicating with more
  complex modules, such as modems or Bluetooth devices.
* **Firmware Sensors and Actuators**: Integrate new sensors and actuators, and
  maintain existing firmware.

:::note
**Firmware are developed in Python** and shares the communication section towards
DBus. DBus is the protocol used to communicate with the JOD Smart Van object's
agent.<br/>
On the other side, repositories that contain the **mobile apps are projects for
their respective operating systems**.
:::
